This topic includes information about the preferred bank account of the legal entity from which inflows and outflows are preferred to be paid/received.

In terms of inflows (customers), feature is added so that information about the preferred bank account of the legal entity regarding the expected inflows from customers can be defined on the customer group level. When creating new customer, when entering Customer group, default bank account from customer group is transferred to newly created customer. When creating sales documents (Sales quotation, Sales order, Sales invoice and FTI), this company bank account is transferred from the customer to the sales documents. Bank account to which company wants to receive inflows in connection with the document should be specified. This bank account is transferred to the following documents if they exist (e.g. from sales order to invoice), but it can also be manually changed on each sales document. Bank account information is also transferred to the document printout and open customer transaction when documents are posted.

In terms of outflows - each vendor bank account can be mapped to a specific company bank account from which payment should later be proposed. Preferred bank account from which outflows for each specific vendor should be paid can be set on each of the vendor’s bank accounts. Information about the specified bank account can be used during payment proposal preparation in a presence of an adequate setup.

[Detailed document](https://adacta.sharepoint.com/:w:/r/sites/ERP-Product-Development/Shared%20Documents/D365FO%20Localization%20documentation/D365O%20ext%20LOC%20Company%20bank%20account%20(customers%20and%20vendors).docx?d=wb79c4fe1e75a4472a8219c19584621e2&csf=1&e=woygzq)