The following topics describe local functionality that is unique to the Slovenian version of Finance and Operations.

## In This Section

### VAT

**Feature**|**Description**
:-|:-
[VIES (recapitulative report)](/Help/Core-Localization/Slovenian-Localization-Functionalities/VIES-\(recapitulative-report\))|VIES report is a report in which taxable entities, identified for VAT purposes in Slovenia are obliged to report the supplies of goods and services that are delivered to entities, identified for VAT in the other Member States of the European Union during the reporting period (the calendar month). VIES report needs to be submitted to the Slovenian tax authority (FURS) till the 20th in the following month after the occurrence of the reporting events.
[DDV-O (Obračun DDV)](/Help/Core-Localization/Slovenian-Localization-Functionalities/DDV-O-\(Obračun-DDV\))|DDV-O is a Slovenian sales tax return report. Every taxable person identified for VAT purposes in Slovenia is obliged to submit a VAT return to the Slovenian tax authority. DDV-O should include all the required VAT return settings, with the information needed to calculate the sales tax and applicable deduction to be made including the total value of transactions relating to such tax and deductions. Additionally, the value of any exempt transactions should be included. Taxable entities have to submit the tax return to the tax authority by the last business day of the month, which follows the expiry of the tax period, while Slovenian laws also allow multiple exceptions. VAT tax return (DDV-O) needs to be submitted electronically via the eDavki portal of the Slovenian tax authority (FURS).
[List of incoming (PR) and outgoing (IR) invoices](/Help/Core-Localization/Slovenian-Localization-Functionalities/List-of-incoming-\(PR\)-and-outgoing-\(IR\)-invoices)|A taxable person filing a VAT return (DDV-O) for the first time must attach a list of the incoming (PR) and outgoing (IR) invoices that served as the basis for preparing the VAT return. These two lists must also be available to be sent to the Slovenian tax authority if required directly by the authority and therefore need to be available to be extracted from the ERP. <br>IR and PR reports are prepared based on Tax transactions and according to VAT date. Both reports can be exported to various formats (e.g. Word, PDF or Excel). A special export in the format, required by the Slovenian tax authority (FURS) is also available for IR and PR. All reports are prepared using Slovenian sales tax reporting codes.
[PDO Report](/Help/Core-Localization/Slovenian-Localization-Functionalities/PDO-Report)|PDO report is a report required by the Slovenian tax authority regarding the supply of goods and services for which the recipient (and not the provider of goods or services) is a VAT payer according to the 76.a Article of the Slovenian sales tax law (ZDDV-1), where specific services for which this is applicable is also defined – e.g. construction work related services. Slovenian taxable persons, which perform these activities, must notice the Slovenian tax authority about their activities within 30 days of their occurrence. PDO report needs to be submitted electronically until the last day of the following month after deliveries of such goods or services occurred. Reporting is done through eDavki portal of the Slovenian tax authority (FURS).<br>PDO reports sums transactions based on tax exempt numbers. The report consists of A (information about the deliveries for the current period) and B part (information about the corrections for previous periods). PDO report can be previewed (HTML) and exported as XML file, using the adequate model for reporting to the Slovenian tax authority (FURS) portal eDavki.
[Additional dates for VAT reporting purposes](/Help/Core-Localization/VAT/Additional-dates-for-VAT-reporting-purposes)|All VAT reporting for Slovenia, Croatia, and Serbia needs to be performed according to VAT date and not Transaction date (which is how standard functionality for Tax reporting works). For VAT reporting purposes following dates are added to several documents such as VAT date, VAT Payable date and Document Receipt date (used for defaulting VAT date).
[VAT date change](/Help/Core-Localization/VAT/VAT-date-change.md)|VAT date can be manually changed on posted Sales tax transactions by using function “Change VAT date”. VAT date is then changed on both - Tax transaction and Invoice journal. VAT date change for the period that is closed for posting is not possible and will result in an error.
[Reporting Tab on Tax transaction](/Help/Core-Localization/VAT/Reporting-Tab-on-Tax-transaction.md)|As part of localization, additional “Reporting” tab is added to Tax transactions. It displays information, such as Customer/Vendor, Address, Tax exempt number, Document, Document date and Document receipt date. This information is used on VAT reports.
[Informative VAT calculation](/Help/Core-Localization/VAT/Informative-VAT-calculation.md)|An option to calculate informative VAT is added. It is used in cases when VAT value is zero, but informative VAT value needs to be calculated and later added to invoice printout or other documents.
[Taxable persons list SI, HR](/Help/Core-Localization/VAT/Taxable-persons-list-\(SI,-HR\))|A taxable person list is added in the scope of Slovenian and Croatian localization. Slovenian list stores information, such as tax registration number, company registration number, taxable person type, name, address, and special handling (e.g. 76.a ZDDV-1) checkmark, while Croatian list stores the following information: OIB, identification number, type, and name. This list can later be used when adding VAT ID to Vendor or Customer.


### Personal Tax Reports

**Feature**|**Description**
:-|:-
[REK-1](/Help/Core-Localization/Personal-tax-reports/REK-1-\(SI\))|REK-1 is a Slovenian personal tax report, which legal entities or natural persons who perform business activities are obliged to report to the Slovenian tax authority (FURS) if they pay incomes from employment. Report layout and the required conditions are based on paragraph 8, Article 58 of the Tax Procedure Act - ZDavP-2.
[REK-2](/Help/Core-Localization/Personal-tax-reports/REK-2-\(SI\))|REK-2 is a Slovenian personal tax report, which taxpayers are legally (ZDoh-2) obliged to report to the Slovenian tax authority (FURS) if they pay income, other than income from the employment. A taxpayer may also authorize another person to calculate and pay tax on his behalf. The data shall be reported to the tax authority (FURS) by all taxpayers when the payment of other income according to ZDoh-2 (excluding income from employment), from which the tax, the withholding tax, and social security contributions are paid.
